<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI: Jeffrey Blackmore, Deceased</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<p>Jeffrey Blackmore, Deceased</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Having made the above proposition, Thorndyke placed a fresh slip of paper on the blotting pad on his knee and looked inquiringly at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont; who, in his turn, sighed and looked at the bundle of documents on the table.</p>
			<p>“What do you want to know?” he asked a little wearily.</p>
			<p>“Everything,” replied Thorndyke. “You have hinted at circumstances that would account for a change in Jeffrey’s habits and that would explain an alteration in the character of his signature. Let us have those circumstances. And, if I might venture on a suggestion, it would be that we take the events in the order in which they occurred or in which they became known.”</p>
			<p>“That’s the worst of you, Thorndyke,” Marchmont grumbled. “When a case has been squeezed out to the last drop, in a legal sense, you want to begin all over again with the family history of everyone concerned and a list of his effects and household furniture. But I suppose you will have to be humoured; and I imagine that the best way in which to give you the information you want will be to recite the circumstances surrounding the death of Jeffrey Blackmore. Will that suit you?”</p>
			<p>“Perfectly,” replied Thorndyke; and thereupon Marchmont began:</p>
			<p>“The death of Jeffrey Blackmore was discovered at about eleven o’clock in the morning of the fifteenth of March. It seems that a builder’s man was ascending a ladder to examine a gutter on number 31, New Inn, when, on passing a second-floor window that was open at the top, he looked in and perceived a gentleman lying on a bed. The gentleman was fully clothed and had apparently lain down on the bed to rest; at least so the builder thought at the time, for he was merely passing the window on his way up, and, very properly, did not make a minute examination. But when, some ten minutes later, he came down and saw that the gentleman was still in the same position, he looked at him more attentively; and this is what he noticed⁠—but perhaps we had better have it in his own words as he told the story at the inquest.</p>
			<p>“ ‘When I came to look at the gentleman a bit more closely, it struck me that he looked rather queer. His face looked very white, or rather pale yellow, like parchment, and his mouth was open. He did not seem to be breathing. On the bed by his side was a brass object of some kind⁠—I could not make out what it was⁠—and he seemed to be holding some small metal object in his hand. I thought it rather a queer affair, so, when I came down I went across to the lodge and told the porter about it. The porter came out across the square with me and I showed him the window. Then he told me to go up the stairs to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore’s chambers on the second pair and knock and keep on knocking until I got an answer. I went up and knocked and kept on knocking as loud as I could, but, though I fetched everybody out of all the other chambers in the house, I couldn’t get any answer from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore. So I went downstairs again and then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walker, the porter, sent me for a policeman.</p>
			<p>“ ‘I went out and met a policeman just by Dane’s Inn and told him about the affair, and he came back with me. He and the porter consulted together, and then they told me to go up the ladder and get in at the window and open the door of the chambers from the inside. So I went up; and as soon as I got in at the window I saw that the gentleman was dead. I went through the other room and opened the outer door and let in the porter and the policeman.’</p>
			<p>“That,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont, laying down the paper containing the depositions, “is the way in which poor Jeffrey Blackmore’s death came to be discovered.</p>
			<p>“The constable reported to his inspector and the inspector sent for the divisional surgeon, whom he accompanied to New Inn. I need not go into the evidence given by the police officers, as the surgeon saw all that they saw and his statement covers everything that is known about Jeffrey’s death. This is what he says, after describing how he was sent for and arrived at the Inn:</p>
			<p>“ ‘In the bedroom I found the body of a man between fifty and sixty years of age, which has since been identified in my presence as that of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey Blackmore. It was fully dressed and wore boots on which was a moderate amount of dry mud. It was lying on its back on the bed, which did not appear to have been slept in, and showed no sign of any struggle or disturbance. The right hand loosely grasped a hypodermic syringe containing a few drops of clear liquid which I have since analysed and found to be a concentrated solution of strophanthin.</p>
			<p>“ ‘On the bed, close to the left side of the body, was a brass opium-pipe of a pattern which I believe is made in China. The bowl of the pipe contained a small quantity of charcoal, and a fragment of opium together with some ash, and there was on the bed a little ash which appeared to have dropped from the bowl when the pipe fell or was laid down. On the mantelshelf in the bedroom I found a small glass-stoppered jar containing about an ounce of solid opium, and another, larger jar containing wood charcoal broken up into small fragments. Also a bowl containing a quantity of ash with fragments of half-burned charcoal and a few minute particles of charred opium. By the side of the bowl were a knife, a kind of awl or pricker and a very small pair of tongs, which I believe to have been used for carrying a piece of lighted charcoal to the pipe.</p>
			<p>“ ‘On the dressing-table were two glass tubes labelled “Hypodermic Tabloids: Strophanthin ¹⁄₅₀₀ grain,” and a minute glass mortar and pestle, of which the former contained a few crystals which have since been analysed by me and found to be strophanthin.</p>
			<p>“ ‘On examining the body, I found that it had been dead about twelve hours. There were no marks of violence or any abnormal condition excepting a single puncture in the right thigh, apparently made by the needle of the hypodermic syringe. The puncture was deep and vertical in direction as if the needle had been driven in through the clothing.</p>
			<p>“ ‘I made a postmortem examination of the body and found that death was due to poisoning by strophanthin, which appeared to have been injected into the thigh. The two tubes which I found on the dressing-table would each have contained, if full, twenty tabloids, each tabloid representing one five-hundredth of a grain of strophanthin. Assuming that the whole of this quantity was injected the amount taken would be forty five-hundredths, or about one twelfth of a grain. The ordinary medicinal dose of strophanthin is one five-hundredth of a grain.</p>
			<p>“ ‘I also found in the body appreciable traces of morphine⁠—the principal alkaloid of opium⁠—from which I infer that the deceased was a confirmed opium-smoker. This inference was supported by the general condition of the body, which was ill-nourished and emaciated and presented all the appearances usually met with in the bodies of persons addicted to the habitual use of opium.’</p>
			<p>“That is the evidence of the surgeon. He was recalled later, as we shall see, but, meanwhile, I think you will agree with me that the facts testified to by him fully account, not only for the change in Jeffrey’s habits⁠—his solitary and secretive mode of life⁠—but also for the alteration in his handwriting.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” agreed Thorndyke, “that seems to be so. By the way, what did the change in the handwriting amount to?”</p>
			<p>“Very little,” replied Marchmont. “It was hardly perceptible. Just a slight loss of firmness and distinctness; such a trifling change as you would expect to find in the handwriting of a man who had taken to drink or drugs, or anything that might impair the steadiness of his hand. I should not have noticed it, myself, but, of course, the people at the bank are experts, constantly scrutinizing signatures and scrutinizing them with a very critical eye.”</p>
			<p>“Is there any other evidence that bears on the case?” Thorndyke asked.</p>
			<p>Marchmont turned over the bundle of papers and smiled grimly.</p>
			<p>“My dear Thorndyke,” he said, “none of this evidence has the slightest bearing on the case. It is all perfectly irrelevant as far as the will is concerned. But I know your little peculiarities and I am indulging you, as you see, to the top of your bent. The next evidence is that of the chief porter, a very worthy and intelligent man named Walker. This is what he says, after the usual preliminaries.</p>
			<p>“ ‘I have viewed the body which forms the subject of this inquiry. It is that of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey Blackmore, the tenant of a set of chambers on the second floor of number thirty-one, New Inn. I have known the deceased nearly six months, and during that time have seen and conversed with him frequently. He took the chambers on the second of last October and came into residence at once. Tenants at New Inn have to furnish two references. The references that the deceased gave were his bankers and his brother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Blackmore. I may say that the deceased was very well known to me. He was a quiet, pleasant-mannered gentleman, and it was his habit to drop in occasionally at the lodge and have a chat with me. I went into his chambers with him once or twice on some small matters of business and I noticed that there were always a number of books and papers on the table. I understood from him that he spent most of his time indoors engaged in study and writing. I know very little about his way of living. He had no laundress to look after his rooms, so I suppose he did his own housework and cooking; but he told me that he took most of his meals outside, at restaurants or his club.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Deceased impressed me as a rather melancholy, low-spirited gentleman. He was very much troubled about his eyesight and mentioned the matter to me on several occasions. He told me that he was practically blind in one eye and that the sight of the other was failing rapidly. He said that this afflicted him greatly, because his only pleasure in life was in the reading of books, and that if he could not read he should not wish to live. On another occasion he said that “to a blind man life was not worth living.”</p>
			<p>“ ‘On the twelfth of last November he came to the lodge with a paper in his hand which he said was his will’⁠—But I needn’t read that,” said Marchmont, turning over the leaf, “I’ve told you how the will was signed and witnessed. We will pass on to the day of poor Jeffrey’s death.</p>
			<p>“ ‘On the fourteenth of March,’ the porter says, ‘at about half-past six in the evening, the deceased came to the Inn in a four-wheeled cab. That was the day of the great fog. I do not know if there was anyone in the cab with the deceased, but I think not, because he came to the lodge just before eight o’clock and had a little talk with me. He said that he had been overtaken by the fog and could not see at all. He was quite blind and had been obliged to ask a stranger to call a cab for him as he could not find his way through the streets. He then gave me a cheque for the rent. I reminded him that the rent was not due until the twenty-fifth, but he said he wished to pay it now. He also gave me some money to pay one or two small bills that were owing to some of the tradespeople⁠—a milkman, a baker and a stationer.</p>
			<p>“ ‘This struck me as very strange, because he had always managed his business and paid the tradespeople himself. He told me that the fog had irritated his eye so that he could hardly read, and he was afraid he should soon be quite blind. He was very depressed; so much so that I felt quite uneasy about him. When he left the lodge, he went back across the square as if returning to his chambers. There was then no gate open excepting the main gate where the lodge is situated. That was the last time that I saw the deceased alive.’ ”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont laid the paper on the table. “That is the porter’s evidence. The remaining depositions are those of Noble, the night porter, John Blackmore and our friend here, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen. The night porter had not much to tell. This is the substance of his evidence:</p>
			<p>“ ‘I have viewed the body of the deceased and identify it as that of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey Blackmore. I knew the deceased well by sight and occasionally had a few words with him. I know nothing of his habits excepting that he used to sit up rather late. It is one of my duties to go round the Inn at night and call out the hours until one o’clock in the morning. When calling out “one o’clock” I often saw a light in the sitting-room of the deceased’s chambers. On the night of the fourteenth instant, the light was burning until past one o’clock, but it was in the bedroom. The light in the sitting-room was out by ten o’clock.’</p>
			<p>“We now come to John Blackmore’s evidence. He says:</p>
			<p>“ ‘I have viewed the body of the deceased and recognize it as that of my brother Jeffrey. I last saw him alive on the twenty-third of February, when I called at his chambers. He then seemed in a very despondent state of mind and told me that his eyesight was fast failing. I was aware that he occasionally smoked opium, but I did not know that it was a confirmed habit. I urged him, on several occasions, to abandon the practice. I have no reason to believe that his affairs were in any way embarrassed or that he had any reason for making away with himself other than his failing eyesight; but, having regard to his state of mind when I last saw him, I am not surprised at what has happened.’</p>
			<p>“That is the substance of John Blackmore’s evidence, and, as to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen, his statement merely sets forth the fact that he had identified the body as that of his uncle Jeffrey. And now I think you have all the facts. Is there anything more that you want to ask me before I go, for I must really run away now?”</p>
			<p>“I should like,” said Thorndyke, “to know a little more about the parties concerned in this affair. But perhaps <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen can give me the information.”</p>
			<p>“I expect he can,” said Marchmont; “at any rate, he knows more about them than I do; so I will be off. If you should happen to think of any way,” he continued, with a sly smile, “of upsetting that will, just let me know, and I will lose no time in entering a caveat. Goodbye! Don’t trouble to let me out.”</p>
			<p>As soon as he was gone, Thorndyke turned to Stephen Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“I am going,” he said, “to ask you a few questions which may appear rather trifling, but you must remember that my methods of inquiry concern themselves with persons and things rather than with documents. For instance, I have not gathered very completely what sort of person your uncle Jeffrey was. Could you tell me a little more about him?”</p>
			<p>“What shall I tell you?” Stephen asked with a slightly embarrassed air.</p>
			<p>“Well, begin with his personal appearance.”</p>
			<p>“That is rather difficult to describe,” said Stephen. “He was a medium-sized man and about five feet seven⁠—fair, slightly grey, clean-shaved, rather spare and slight, had grey eyes, wore spectacles and stooped a little as he walked. He was quiet and gentle in manner, rather yielding and irresolute in character, and his health was not at all robust though he had no infirmity or disease excepting his bad eyesight. His age was about fifty-five.”</p>
			<p>“How came he to be a civil-service pensioner at fifty-five?” asked Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>“Oh, that was through an accident. He had a nasty fall from a horse, and, being a rather nervous man, the shock was very severe. For some time after he was a complete wreck. But the failure of his eyesight was the actual cause of his retirement. It seems that the fall damaged his eyes in some way; in fact he practically lost the sight of one⁠—the right⁠—from that moment; and, as that had been his good eye, the accident left his vision very much impaired. So that he was at first given sick leave and then allowed to retire on a pension.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke noted these particulars and then said:</p>
			<p>“Your uncle has been more than once referred to as a man of studious habits. Does that mean that he pursued any particular branch of learning?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He was an enthusiastic Oriental scholar. His official duties had taken him at one time to Yokohama and Tokyo and at another to Bagdad, and while at those places he gave a good deal of attention to the languages, literature and arts of the countries. He was also greatly interested in Babylonian and Assyrian archaeology, and I believe he assisted for some time in the excavations at Birs Nimroud.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed!” said Thorndyke. “This is very interesting. I had no idea that he was a man of such considerable attainments. The facts mentioned by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont would hardly have led one to think of him as what he seems to have been: a scholar of some distinction.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont realized the fact himself,” said Stephen; “or that he would have considered it of any moment if he had. Nor, as far as that goes, do I. But, of course, I have no experience of legal matters.”</p>
			<p>“You can never tell beforehand,” said Thorndyke, “what facts may turn out to be of moment, so that it is best to collect all you can get. By the way, were you aware that your uncle was an opium-smoker?”</p>
			<p>“No, I was not. I knew that he had an opium-pipe which he brought with him when he came home from Japan; but I thought it was only a curio. I remember him telling me that he once tried a few puffs at an opium-pipe and found it rather pleasant, though it gave him a headache. But I had no idea he had contracted the habit; in fact, I may say that I was utterly astonished when the fact came out at the inquest.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke made a note of this answer, too, and said:</p>
			<p>“I think that is all I have to ask you about your uncle Jeffrey. And now as to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> John Blackmore. What sort of man is he?”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid I can’t tell you very much about him. Until I saw him at the inquest, I had not met him since I was a boy. But he is a very different kind of man from Uncle Jeffrey; different in appearance and different in character.”</p>
			<p>“You would say that the two brothers were physically quite unlike, then?”</p>
			<p>“Well,” said Stephen, “I don’t know that I ought to say that. Perhaps I am exaggerating the difference. I am thinking of Uncle Jeffrey as he was when I saw him last and of uncle John as he appeared at the inquest. They were very different then. Jeffrey was thin, pale, clean shaven, wore spectacles and walked with a stoop. John is a shade taller, a shade greyer, has good eyesight, a healthy, florid complexion, a brisk, upright carriage, is distinctly stout and wears a beard and moustache which are black and only very slightly streaked with grey. To me they looked as unlike as two men could, though their features were really of the same type; indeed, I have heard it said that, as young men, they were rather alike, and they both resembled their mother. But there is no doubt as to their difference in character. Jeffrey was quiet, serious and studious, whereas John rather inclined to what is called a fast life; he used to frequent race meetings, and, I think, gambled a good deal at times.”</p>
			<p>“What is his profession?”</p>
			<p>“That would be difficult to tell; he has so many; he is so very versatile. I believe he began life as an articled pupil in the laboratory of a large brewery, but he soon left that and went on the stage. He seems to have remained in ‘the profession’ for some years, touring about this country and making occasional visits to America. The life seemed to suit him and I believe he was decidedly successful as an actor. But suddenly he left the stage and blossomed out in connection with a bucket-shop in London.”</p>
			<p>“And what is he doing now?”</p>
			<p>“At the inquest he described himself as a stockbroker, so I presume he is still connected with the bucket-shop.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke rose, and taking down from the reference shelves a list of members of the Stock Exchange, turned over the leaves.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said, replacing the volume, “he must be an outside broker. His name is not in the list of members of ‘the House.’ From what you tell me, it is easy to understand that there should have been no great intimacy between the two brothers, without assuming any kind of ill-feeling. They simply had very little in common. Do you know of anything more?”</p>
			<p>“No. I have never heard of any actual quarrel or disagreement. My impression that they did not get on very well may have been, I think, due to the terms of the will, especially the first will. And they certainly did not seek one another’s society.”</p>
			<p>“That is not very conclusive,” said Thorndyke. “As to the will, a thrifty man is not usually much inclined to bequeath his savings to a gentleman who may probably employ them in a merry little flutter on the turf or the Stock Exchange. And then there was yourself; clearly a more suitable subject for a legacy, as your life is all before you. But this is mere speculation and the matter is not of much importance, as far as we can see. And now, tell me what John Blackmore’s relations were with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson. I gather that she left the bulk of her property to Jeffrey, her younger brother. Is that so?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. She left nothing to John. The fact is that they were hardly on speaking terms. I believe John had treated her rather badly, or, at any rate, she thought he had. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wilson, her late husband, dropped some money over an investment in connection with the bucket-shop that I spoke of, and I think she suspected John of having let him in. She may have been mistaken, but you know what ladies are when they get an idea into their heads.”</p>
			<p>“Did you know your aunt well?”</p>
			<p>“No; very slightly. She lived down in Devonshire and saw very little of any of us. She was a taciturn, strong-minded woman; quite unlike her brothers. She seems to have resembled her father’s family.”</p>
			<p>“You might give me her full name.”</p>
			<p>“Julia Elizabeth Wilson. Her husband’s name was Edmund Wilson.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you. There is just one more point. What has happened to your uncle’s chambers in New Inn since his death?”</p>
			<p>“They have remained shut up. As all his effects were left to me, I have taken over the tenancy for the present to avoid having them disturbed. I thought of keeping them for my own use, but I don’t think I could live in them after what I have seen.”</p>
			<p>“You have inspected them, then?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; I have just looked through them. I went there on the day of the inquest.”</p>
			<p>“Now tell me: as you looked through those rooms, what kind of impression did they convey to you as to your uncle’s habits and mode of life?”</p>
			<p>Stephen smiled apologetically. “I am afraid,” said he, “that they did not convey any particular impression in that respect. I looked into the sitting-room and saw all his old familiar household gods, and then I went into the bedroom and saw the impression on the bed where his corpse had lain; and that gave me such a sensation of horror that I came away at once.”</p>
			<p>“But the appearance of the rooms must have conveyed something to your mind,” Thorndyke urged.</p>
			<p>“I am afraid it did not. You see, I have not your analytical eye. But perhaps you would like to look through them yourself? If you would, pray do so. They are my chambers now.”</p>
			<p>“I think I should like to glance round them,” Thorndyke replied.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” said Stephen. “I will give you my card now, and I will look in at the lodge presently and tell the porter to hand you the key whenever you like to look over the rooms.”</p>
			<p>He took a card from his case, and, having written a few lines on it, handed it to Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>“It is very good of you,” he said, “to take so much trouble. Like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont, I have no expectation of any result from your efforts, but I am very grateful to you, all the same, for going into the case so thoroughly. I suppose you don’t see any possibility of upsetting that will⁠—if I may ask the question?”</p>
			<p>“At present,” replied Thorndyke, “I do not. But until I have carefully weighed every fact connected with the case⁠—whether it seems to have any bearing or not⁠—I shall refrain from expressing, or even entertaining, an opinion either way.”</p>
			<p>Stephen Blackmore now took his leave; and Thorndyke, having collected the papers containing his notes, neatly punched a couple of holes in their margins and inserted them into a small file, which he slipped into his pocket.</p>
			<p>“That,” said he, “is the nucleus of the body of data on which our investigations must be based; and I very much fear that it will not receive any great additions. What do you think, Jervis?”</p>
			<p>“The case looks about as hopeless as a case could look,” I replied.</p>
			<p>“That is what I think,” said he; “and for that reason I am more than ordinarily keen on making something of it. I have not much more hope than Marchmont has; but I shall squeeze the case as dry as a bone before I let go. What are you going to do? I have to attend a meeting of the board of directors of the Griffin Life Office.”</p>
			<p>“Shall I walk down with you?”</p>
			<p>“It is very good of you to offer, Jervis, but I think I will go alone. I want to run over these notes and get the facts of the case arranged in my mind. When I have done that, I shall be ready to pick up new matter. Knowledge is of no use unless it is actually in your mind, so that it can be produced at a moment’s notice. So you had better get a book and your pipe and spend a quiet hour by the fire while I assimilate the miscellaneous mental feast that we have just enjoyed. And you might do a little rumination yourself.”</p>
			<p>With this, Thorndyke took his departure; and I, adopting his advice, drew my chair closer to the fire and filled my pipe. But I did not discover any inclination to read. The curious history that I had just heard, and Thorndyke’s evident determination to elucidate it further, disposed me to meditation. Moreover, as his subordinate, it was my business to occupy myself with his affairs. Wherefore, having stirred the fire and got my pipe well alight, I abandoned myself to the renewed consideration of the facts relating to Jeffrey Blackmore’s will.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
