<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI: An Exposition and a Tragedy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:roman">XVI</span></h2>
				<h3>An Exposition and a Tragedy</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“You may have wondered,” Thorndyke commenced, when he had poured out the coffee and handed round the cups, “what induced me to undertake the minute investigation of so apparently simple and straightforward a case. Perhaps I had better explain that first and let you see what was the real starting-point of the inquiry.</p>
			<p>“When you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen, introduced the case to me, I made a very brief precis of the facts as you presented them, and of these there were one or two which immediately attracted my attention. In the first place, there was the will. It was a very strange will. It was perfectly unnecessary. It contained no new matter; it expressed no changed intentions; it met no new circumstances, as known to the testator. In short it was not really a new will at all, but merely a repetition of the first one, drafted in different and less suitable language. It differed only in introducing a certain ambiguity from which the original was free. It created the possibility that, in certain circumstances, not known to or anticipated by the testator, John Blackmore might become the principal beneficiary, contrary to the obvious wishes of the testator.</p>
			<p>“The next point that impressed me was the manner of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson’s death. She died of cancer. Now people do not die suddenly and unexpectedly of cancer. This terrible disease stands almost alone in that it marks out its victim months in advance. A person who has an incurable cancer is a person whose death may be predicted with certainty and its date fixed within comparatively narrow limits.</p>
			<p>“And now observe the remarkable series of coincidences that are brought into light when we consider this peculiarity of the disease. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson died on the twelfth of March of this present year. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey’s second will was signed on the twelfth of November of last year; at a time, that is to say, when the existence of cancer must have been known to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson’s doctor, and might have been known to any of her relatives who chose to inquire after her.</p>
			<p>“Then you will observe that the remarkable change in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey’s habits coincides in the most singular way with the same events. The cancer must have been detectable as early as September of last year; about the time, in fact, at which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson made her will. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey went to the inn at the beginning of October. From that time his habits were totally changed, and I can demonstrate to you that a change⁠—not a gradual, but an abrupt change⁠—took place in the character of his signature.</p>
			<p>“In short, the whole of this peculiar set of circumstances⁠—the change in Jeffrey’s habits, the change in his signature, and the execution of his strange will⁠—came into existence about the time when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson was first known to be suffering from cancer.</p>
			<p>“This struck me as a very suggestive fact.</p>
			<p>“Then there is the extraordinarily opportune date of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey’s death. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson died on the twelfth of March. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey was found dead on the fifteenth of March, having apparently died on the fourteenth, on which day he was seen alive. If he had died only three days sooner, he would have predeceased <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson, and her property would never have devolved on him at all; while, if he had lived only a day or two longer, he would have learned of her death and would certainly have made a new will or codicil in his nephew’s favour.</p>
			<p>“Circumstances, therefore, conspired in the most singular manner in favour of John Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“But there is yet another coincidence. Jeffrey’s body was found, by the merest chance, the day after his death. But it might have remained undiscovered for weeks, or even months; and if it had, it would have been impossible to fix the date of his death. Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson’s next of kin would certainly have contested John Blackmore’s claim⁠—and probably with success⁠—on the ground that Jeffrey died before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson. But all this uncertainty is provided for by the circumstance that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey paid his rent personally⁠—and prematurely⁠—to the porter on the fourteenth of March, thus establishing beyond question the fact that he was alive on that date; and yet further, in case the porter’s memory should be untrustworthy or his statement doubted, Jeffrey furnished a signed and dated document⁠—the cheque⁠—which could be produced in a court to furnish incontestable proof of survival.</p>
			<p>“To sum up this part of the evidence. Here was a will which enabled John Blackmore to inherit the fortune of a man who, almost certainly, had no intention of bequeathing it to him. The wording of that will seemed to be adjusted to the peculiarities of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson’s disease; and the death of the testator occurred under a peculiar set of circumstances which seemed to be exactly adjusted to the wording of the will. Or, to put it in another way: the wording of the will and the time, the manner and the circumstances of the testator’s death, all seemed to be precisely adjusted to the fact that the approximate date of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson’s death was known some months before it occurred.</p>
			<p>“Now you must admit that this compound group of coincidences, all conspiring to a single end⁠—the enrichment of John Blackmore⁠—has a very singular appearance. Coincidences are common enough in real life; but we cannot accept too many at a time. My feeling was that there were too many in this case and that I could not accept them without searching inquiry.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke paused, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont, who had listened with close attention, nodded, as he glanced at his silent partner.</p>
			<p>“You have stated the case with remarkable clearness,” he said; “and I am free to confess that some of the points that you have raised had escaped my notice.”</p>
			<p>“My first idea,” Thorndyke resumed, “was that John Blackmore, taking advantage of the mental enfeeblement produced by the opium habit, had dictated this will to Jeffrey, It was then that I sought permission to inspect Jeffrey’s chambers; to learn what I could about him and to see for myself whether they presented the dirty and disorderly appearance characteristic of the regular opium-smoker’s den. But when, during a walk into the City, I thought over the case, it seemed to me that this explanation hardly met the facts. Then I endeavoured to think of some other explanation; and looking over my notes I observed two points that seemed worth considering. One was that neither of the witnesses to the will was really acquainted with Jeffrey Blackmore; both being strangers who had accepted his identity on his own statement. The other was that no one who had previously known him, with the single exception of his brother John, had ever seen Jeffrey at the inn.</p>
			<p>“What was the import of these two facts? Probably they had none. But still they suggested the desirability of considering the question: Was the person who signed the will really Jeffrey Blackmore? The contrary supposition⁠—that someone had personated Jeffrey and forged his signature to a false will⁠—seemed wildly improbable, especially in view of the identification of the body; but it involved no actual impossibility; and it offered a complete explanation of the, otherwise inexplicable, coincidences that I have mentioned.</p>
			<p>“I did not, however, for a moment, think that this was the true explanation, but I resolved to bear it in mind, to test it when the opportunity arose, and consider it by the light of any fresh facts that I might acquire.</p>
			<p>“The new facts came sooner than I had expected. That same evening I went with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis to New Inn and found <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen in the chambers. By him I was informed that Jeffrey was a learned Orientalist, with a quite expert knowledge of the cuneiform writing; and even as he was telling me this, I looked over his shoulder and saw a cuneiform inscription hanging on the wall upside down.</p>
			<p>“Now, of this there could be only one reasonable explanation. Disregarding the fact that no one would screw the suspension plates on a frame without ascertaining which was the right way up, and assuming it to be hung up inverted, it was impossible that the misplacement could have been overlooked by Jeffrey. He was not blind, though his sight was defective. The frame was thirty inches long and the individual characters nearly an inch in length⁠—about the size of the D 18 letters of Snellen’s test-types, which can be read by a person of ordinary sight at a distance of fifty-five feet. There was, I repeat, only one reasonable explanation; which was that the person who had inhabited those chambers was not Jeffrey Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“This conclusion received considerable support from a fact which I observed later, but mention in this place. On examining the soles of the shoes taken from the dead man’s feet, I found only the ordinary mud of the streets. There was no trace of the peculiar gravelly mud that adhered to my own boots and Jervis’s, and which came from the square of the inn. Yet the porter distinctly stated that the deceased, after paying the rent, walked back towards his chambers across the square; the mud of which should, therefore, have been conspicuous on his shoes.</p>
			<p>“Thus, in a moment, a wildly speculative hypothesis had assumed a high degree of probability.</p>
			<p>“When <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen was gone, Jervis and I looked over the chambers thoroughly; and then another curious fact came to light. On the wall were a number of fine Japanese colour-prints, all of which showed recent damp-spots. Now, apart from the consideration that Jeffrey, who had been at the trouble and expense of collecting these valuable prints, would hardly have allowed them to rot on his walls, there arose the question: How came they to be damp? There was a gas stove in the room, and a gas stove has at least the virtue of preserving a dry atmosphere. It was winter weather, when the stove would naturally be pretty constantly alight. How came the walls to be so damp? The answer seemed to be that the stove had not been constantly alight, but had been lighted only occasionally. This suggestion was borne out by a further examination of the rooms. In the kitchen there were practically no stores and hardly any arrangements even for simple bachelor cooking; the bedroom offered the same suggestion; the soap in the washstand was shrivelled and cracked; there was no cast-off linen, and the shirts in the drawers, though clean, had the peculiar yellowish, faded appearance that linen acquires when long out of use. In short, the rooms had the appearance of not having been lived in at all, but only visited at intervals.</p>
			<p>“Against this view, however, was the statement of the night porter that he had often seen a light in Jeffrey’s sitting-room at one o’clock in the morning, with the apparent implication that it was then turned out. Now a light may be left in an empty room, but its extinction implies the presence of some person to extinguish it; unless some automatic device be adopted for putting it out at a given time. Such a device⁠—the alarm movement of a clock, for instance, with a suitable attachment⁠—is a simple enough matter, but my search of the rooms failed to discover anything of the kind. However, when looking over the drawers in the bedroom, I came upon a large box that had held a considerable quantity of hard stearine candles. There were only a few left, but a flat candlestick with numerous wick-ends in its socket accounted for the remainder.</p>
			<p>“These candles seemed to dispose of the difficulty. They were not necessary for ordinary lighting, since gas was laid on in all three rooms. For what purpose, then, were they used, and in such considerable quantities? I subsequently obtained some of the same brand⁠—Price’s stearine candles, six to the pound⁠—and experimented with them. Each candle was seven and a quarter inches in length, not counting the cone at the top, and I found that they burned in still air at the rate of a fraction over one inch in an hour. We may say that one of these candles would burn in still air a little over six hours. It would thus be possible for the person who inhabited these rooms to go away at seven o’clock in the evening and leave a light which would burn until past one in the morning and then extinguish itself. This, of course, was only surmise, but it destroyed the significance of the night porter’s statement.</p>
			<p>“But, if the person who inhabited these chambers was not Jeffrey, who was he?</p>
			<p>“The answer to that question seemed plain enough. There was only one person who had a strong motive for perpetrating a fraud of this kind, and there was only one person to whom it was possible. If this person was not Jeffrey, he must have been very like Jeffrey; sufficiently like for the body of the one to be mistaken for the body of the other. For the production of Jeffrey’s body was an essential part of the plan and must have been contemplated from the first. But the only person who fulfills the conditions is John Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“We have learned from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen that John and Jeffrey, though very different in appearance in later years, were much alike as young men. But when two brothers who are much alike as young men, become unlike in later life, we shall find that the unlikeness is produced by superficial differences and that the essential likeness remains. Thus, in the present case, Jeffrey was clean shaved, had bad eyesight, wore spectacles and stooped as he walked; John wore a beard and moustache, had good eyesight, did not wear spectacles and had a brisk gait and upright carriage. But supposing John to shave off his beard and moustache, to put on spectacles and to stoop in his walk, these conspicuous but superficial differences would vanish and the original likeness reappear.</p>
			<p>“There is another consideration. John had been an actor and was an actor of some experience. Now, any person can, with some care and practice, make up a disguise; the great difficulty is to support that disguise by a suitable manner and voice. But to an experienced actor this difficulty does not exist. To him, personation is easy; and, moreover, an actor is precisely the person to whom the idea of disguise and impersonation would occur.</p>
			<p>“There is a small item bearing on this point, so small as to be hardly worth calling evidence, but just worth noting. In the pocket of the waistcoat taken from the body of Jeffrey I found the stump of a ‘Contango’ pencil; a pencil that is sold for the use of stock dealers and brokers. Now John was an outside broker and might very probably have used such a pencil, whereas Jeffrey had no connection with the stock markets and there is no reason why he should have possessed a pencil of this kind. But the fact is merely suggestive; it has no evidential value.</p>
			<p>“A more important inference is to be drawn from the collected signatures. I have remarked that the change in the signature occurred abruptly, with one or two alterations of manner, last September, and that there are two distinct forms with no intermediate varieties. This is, in itself, remarkable and suspicious. But a remark made by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Britton furnishes a really valuable piece of evidence on the point we are now considering. He admitted that the character of the signature had undergone a change, but observed that the change did not affect the individual or personal character of the writing. This is very important; for handwriting is, as it were, an extension of the personality of the writer. And just as a man to some extent snares his personality with his near blood-relations in the form of family resemblances, so his handwriting often shows a subtle likeness to that of his near relatives. You must have noticed, as I have, how commonly the handwriting of one brother resembles that of another, and in just this peculiar and subtle way. The inference, then, from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Britton’s statement is, that if the signature of the will was forged, it was probably forged by a relative of the deceased. But the only relative in question is his brother John.</p>
			<p>“All the facts, therefore, pointed to John Blackmore as the person who occupied these chambers, and I accordingly adopted that view as a working hypothesis.”</p>
			<p>“But this was all pure speculation,” objected <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood.</p>
			<p>“Not speculation,” said Thorndyke. “Hypothesis. It was ordinary inductive reasoning such as we employ in scientific research. I started with the purely tentative hypothesis that the person who signed the will was not Jeffrey Blackmore. I assumed this; and I may say that I did not believe it at the time, but merely adopted it as a proposition that was worth testing. I accordingly tested it, ‘Yes?’ or ‘No?’ with each new fact; but as each new fact said ‘Yes,’ and no fact said definitely ‘No,’ its probability increased rapidly by a sort of geometrical progression. The probabilities multiplied into one another. It is a perfectly sound method, for one knows that if a hypothesis be true, it will lead one, sooner or later, to a crucial fact by which its truth can be demonstrated.</p>
			<p>“To resume our argument. We have now set up the proposition that John Blackmore was the tenant of New Inn and that he was personating Jeffrey. Let us reason from this and see what it leads to.</p>
			<p>“If the tenant of New Inn was John, then Jeffrey must be elsewhere, since his concealment at the inn was clearly impossible. But he could not have been far away, for he had to be producible at short notice whenever the death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilson should make the production of his body necessary. But if he was producible, his person must have been in the possession or control of John. He could not have been at large, for that would have involved the danger of his being seen and recognized. He could not have been in any institution or place where he would be in contact with strangers. Then he must be in some sort of confinement. But it is difficult to keep an adult in confinement in an ordinary house. Such a proceeding would involve great risk of discovery and the use of violence which would leave traces on the body, to be observed and commented on at the inquest. What alternative method could be suggested?</p>
			<p>“The most obvious method is that of keeping the prisoner in such a state of debility as would confine him to his bed. But such debility could be produced by only starvation, unsuitable food, or chronic poisoning. Of these alternatives, poisoning is much more exact, more calculable in its effect and more under control. The probabilities, then, were in favour of chronic poisoning.</p>
			<p>“Having reached this stage, I recalled a singular case which Jervis had mentioned to me and which seemed to illustrate this method. On our return home I asked him for further particulars, and he then gave me a very detailed description of the patient and the circumstances. The upshot was rather startling. I had looked on his case as merely illustrative, and wished to study it for the sake of the suggestions that it might offer. But when I had heard his account, I began to suspect that there was something more than mere parallelism of method. It began to look as if his patient, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Graves, might actually be Jeffrey Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“The coincidences were remarkable. The general appearance of the patient tallied completely with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen’s description of his uncle Jeffrey. The patient had a tremulous iris in his right eye and had clearly suffered from dislocation of the crystalline lens. But from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen’s account of his uncle’s sudden loss of sight in the right eye after a fall, I judged that Jeffrey had also suffered from dislocation of the lens and therefore had a tremulous iris in the right eye. The patient, Graves, evidently had defective vision in his left eye, as proved by the marks made behind his ears by the hooked sidebars of his spectacles; for it is only on spectacles that are intended for constant use that we find hooked sidebars. But Jeffrey had defective vision in his left eye and wore spectacles constantly. Lastly, the patient Graves was suffering from chronic morphine poisoning, and morphine was found in the body of Jeffrey.</p>
			<p>“Once more, it appeared to me that there were too many coincidences.</p>
			<p>“The question as to whether Graves and Jeffrey were identical admitted of fairly easy disproof; for if Graves was still alive, he could not be Jeffrey. It was an important question and I resolved to test it without delay. That night, Jervis and I plotted out the chart, and on the following morning we located the house. But it was empty and to let. The birds had flown, and we failed to discover whither they had gone.</p>
			<p>“However, we entered the house and explored. I have told you about the massive bolts and fastenings that we found on the bedroom doors and window, showing that the room had been used as a prison. I have told you of the objects that we picked out of the dust-heap under the grate. Of the obvious suggestion offered by the Japanese brush and the bottle of ‘spirit gum’ or cement, I need not speak now; but I must trouble you with some details concerning the broken spectacles. For here we had come upon the crucial fact to which, as I have said, all sound inductive reasoning brings one sooner or later.</p>
			<p>“The spectacles were of a rather peculiar pattern. The frames were of the type invented by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stopford of Moorfields and known by his name. The right eyepiece was fitted with plain glass, as is usual in the case of a blind, or useless, eye. It was very much shattered, but its character was obvious. The glass of the left eye was much thicker and fortunately less damaged, so that I was able accurately to test its refraction.</p>
			<p>“When I reached home, I laid the pieces of the spectacles together, measured the frames very carefully, tested the left eyeglass, and wrote down a full description such as would have been given by the surgeon to the spectacle-maker. Here it is, and I will ask you to note it carefully.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Spectacles for constant use. Steel frame, Stopford’s pattern, curl sides, broad bridge with gold lining. Distance between centres, 6.2 centimetres; extreme length of sidebars, 13.3 centimetres.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Right eye plain glass.</p>
			<table data-summary="eyeglass prescription">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>“ ‘Left eye</td>
						<td>-<u>5.75 D. spherical</u></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td> </td>
						<td>−3.25 D. cylindrical, axis 35°.’</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>“The spectacles, you see, were of a very distinctive character and seemed to offer a good chance of identification. Stopford’s frames are, I believe, made by only one firm of opticians in London, Parry &amp; Cuxton of Regent Street. I therefore wrote to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cuxton, who knows me, asking him if he had supplied spectacles to the late Jeffrey Blackmore, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Esq.</abbr>⁠—here is a copy of my letter⁠—and if so, whether he would mind letting me have a full description of them, together with the name of the oculist who prescribed them.</p>
			<p>“He replied in this letter, which is pinned to the copy of mine, that, about four years ago, he supplied a pair of glasses to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey Blackmore, and described them thus: ‘The spectacles were for constant use and had steel frames of Stopford’s pattern with curl sides, the length of the sidebars including the curled ends being 13.3 cm. The bridge was broad with a gold lining-plate, shaped as shown by the enclosed tracing from the diagram on the prescription. Distance between centres 6.2 cm.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Right eye plain glass.</p>
			<table data-summary="eyeglass prescription">
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td>“ ‘Left eye</td>
						<td>-<u>5.75 D. spherical</u></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td> </td>
						<td>−3.25 D. cylindrical, axis 35°.’</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
			<p>“ ‘The spectacles were prescribed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hindley of Wimpole Street.’</p>
			<p>“You see that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cuxton’s description is identical with mine. However, for further confirmation, I wrote to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hindley, asking certain questions, to which he replied thus:</p>
			<p>“ ‘You are quite right. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jeffrey Blackmore had a tremulous iris in his right eye (which was practically blind), due to dislocation of the lens. The pupils were rather large; certainly not contracted.’</p>
			<p>“Here, then, we have three important facts. One is that the spectacles found by us at Kennington Lane were undoubtedly Jeffrey’s; for it is as unlikely that there exists another pair of spectacles exactly identical with those as that there exists another face exactly like Jeffrey’s face. The second fact is that the description of Jeffrey tallies completely with that of the sick man, Graves, as given by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis; and the third is that when Jeffrey was seen by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hindley, there was no sign of his being addicted to the taking of morphine. The first and second facts, you will agree, constitute complete identification.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Marchmont; “I think we must admit the identification as being quite conclusive, though the evidence is of a kind that is more striking to the medical than to the legal mind.”</p>
			<p>“You will not have that complaint to make against the next item of evidence,” said Thorndyke. “It is after the lawyer’s own heart, as you shall hear. A few days ago I wrote to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen asking him if he possessed a recent photograph of his uncle Jeffrey. He had one, and he sent it to me by return. This portrait I showed to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis and asked him if he had ever seen the person it represented. After examining it attentively, without any hint whatever from me, he identified it as the portrait of the sick man, Graves.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed!” exclaimed Marchmont. “This is most important. Are you prepared to swear to the identity, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis?”</p>
			<p>“I have not the slightest doubt,” I replied, “that the portrait is that of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Graves.”</p>
			<p>“Excellent!” said Marchmont, rubbing his hands gleefully; “this will be much more convincing to a jury. Pray go on, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thorndyke.”</p>
			<p>“That,” said Thorndyke, “completes the first part of my investigation. We had now reached a definite, demonstrable fact; and that fact, as you see, disposed at once of the main question⁠—the genuineness of the will. For if the man at Kennington Lane was Jeffrey Blackmore, then the man at New Inn was not. But it was the latter who had signed the will. Therefore the will was not signed by Jeffrey Blackmore; that is to say, it was a forgery. The case was complete for the purposes of the civil proceedings; the rest of my investigations had reference to the criminal prosecution that was inevitable. Shall I proceed, or is your interest confined to the will?”</p>
			<p>“Hang the will!” exclaimed Stephen. “I want to hear how you propose to lay hands on the villain who murdered poor old uncle Jeffrey⁠—for I suppose he did murder him?”</p>
			<p>“I think there is no doubt of it,” replied Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>“Then,” said Marchmont, “we will hear the rest of the argument, if you please.”</p>
			<p>“Very well,” said Thorndyke. “As the evidence stands, we have proved that Jeffrey Blackmore was a prisoner in the house in Kennington Lane and that someone was personating him at New Inn. That someone, we have seen, was, in all probability, John Blackmore. We now have to consider the man Weiss. Who was he? and can we connect him in any way with New Inn?</p>
			<p>“We may note in passing that Weiss and the coachman were apparently one and the same person. They were never seen together. When Weiss was present, the coachman was not available even for so urgent a service as the obtaining of an antidote to the poison. Weiss always appeared some time after Jervis’s arrival and disappeared some time before his departure, in each case sufficiently long to allow of a change of disguise. But we need not labour the point, as it is not of primary importance.</p>
			<p>“To return to Weiss. He was clearly heavily disguised, as we see by his unwillingness to show himself even by the light of a candle. But there is an item of positive evidence on this point which is important from having other bearings. It is furnished by the spectacles worn by Weiss, of which you have heard Jervis’s description. These spectacles had very peculiar optical properties. When you looked <em>through</em> them they had the properties of plain glass; when you looked <em>at</em> them they had the appearance of lenses. But only one kind of glass possesses these properties; namely, that which, like an ordinary watch-glass, has curved, parallel surfaces. But for what purpose could a person wear ‘watch-glass’ spectacles? Clearly, not to assist his vision. The only alternative is disguise.</p>
			<p>“The properties of these spectacles introduce a very curious and interesting feature into the case. To the majority of persons, the wearing of spectacles for the purpose of disguise or personation, seems a perfectly simple and easy proceeding. But, to a person of normal eyesight, it is nothing of the kind. For, if he wears spectacles suited for long sight he cannot see distinctly through them at all; while, if he wears concave, or near sight, glasses, the effort to see through them produces such strain and fatigue that his eyes become disabled altogether. On the stage the difficulty is met by using spectacles of plain window-glass, but in real life this would hardly do; the ‘property’ spectacles would be detected at once and give rise to suspicion.</p>
			<p>“The personator is therefore in this dilemma: if he wears actual spectacles, he cannot see through them; if he wears sham spectacles of plain glass, his disguise will probably be detected. There is only one way out of the difficulty, and that not a very satisfactory one; but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss seems to have adopted it in lieu of a better. It is that of using watch-glass spectacles such as I have described.</p>
			<p>“Now, what do we learn from these very peculiar glasses? In the first place they confirm our opinion that Weiss was wearing a disguise. But, for use in a room so very dimly lighted, the ordinary stage spectacles would have answered quite well. The second inference is, then, that these spectacles were prepared to be worn under more trying conditions of light⁠—out of doors, for instance. The third inference is that Weiss was a man with normal eyesight; for otherwise he could have worn real spectacles suited to the state of his vision.</p>
			<p>“These are inferences by the way, to which we may return. But these glasses furnish a much more important suggestion. On the floor of the bedroom at New Inn I found some fragments of glass which had been trodden on. By joining one or two of them together, we have been able to make out the general character of the object of which they formed parts. My assistant⁠—who was formerly a watchmaker⁠—judged that object to be the thin crystal glass of a lady’s watch, and this, I think, was Jervis’s opinion. But the small part which remains of the original edge furnishes proof in two respects that this was not a watch-glass. In the first place, on taking a careful tracing of this piece of the edge, I found that its curve was part of an ellipse; but watch-glasses, nowadays, are invariably circular. In the second place, watch-glasses are ground on the edge to a single bevel to snap into the bezel or frame; but the edge of this object was ground to a double bevel, like the edge of a spectacle-glass, which fits into a groove in the frame and is held by the sidebar screw. The inevitable inference was that this was a spectacle-glass. But, if so, it was part of a pair of spectacles identical in properties with those worn by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss.</p>
			<p>“The importance of this conclusion emerges when we consider the exceptional character of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss’s spectacles. They were not merely peculiar or remarkable; they were probably unique. It is exceedingly likely that there is not in the entire world another similar pair of spectacles. Whence the finding of these fragments of glass in the bedroom establishes a considerable probability that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss was, at some time, in the chambers at New Inn.</p>
			<p>“And now let us gather up the threads of this part of the argument. We are inquiring into the identity of the man Weiss. Who was he?</p>
			<p>“In the first place, we find him committing a secret crime from which John Blackmore alone will benefit. This suggests the prima facie probability that he was John Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“Then we find that he was a man of normal eyesight who was wearing spectacles for the purpose of disguise. But the tenant of New Inn, whom we have seen to be, almost certainly, John Blackmore⁠—and whom we will, for the present, assume to have been John Blackmore⁠—was a man with normal eyesight who wore spectacles for disguise.</p>
			<p>“John Blackmore did not reside at New Inn, but at some place within easy reach of it. But Weiss resided at a place within easy reach of New Inn.</p>
			<p>“John Blackmore must have had possession and control of the person of Jeffrey. But Weiss had possession and control of the person of Jeffrey.</p>
			<p>“Weiss wore spectacles of a certain peculiar and probably unique character. But portions of such spectacles were found in the chambers at New Inn.</p>
			<p>“The overwhelming probability, therefore, is that Weiss and the tenant of New Inn were one and the same person; and that that person was John Blackmore.”</p>
			<p>“That,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood, “is a very plausible argument. But, you observe, sir, that it contains an undistributed middle term.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke smiled genially. I think he forgave Winwood everything for that remark.</p>
			<p>“You are quite right, sir,” he said. “It does. And, for that reason, the demonstration is not absolute. But we must not forget, what logicians seem occasionally to overlook: that the ‘undistributed middle,’ while it interferes with absolute proof, may be quite consistent with a degree of probability that approaches very near to certainty. Both the Bertillon system and the English fingerprint system involve a process of reasoning in which the middle term is undistributed. But the great probabilities are accepted in practice as equivalent to certainties.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood grunted a grudging assent, and Thorndyke resumed:</p>
			<p>“We have now furnished fairly conclusive evidence on three heads: we have proved that the sick man, Graves, was Jeffrey Blackmore; that the tenant of New Inn was John Blackmore; and that the man Weiss was also John Blackmore. We now have to prove that John and Jeffrey were together in the chambers at New Inn on the night of Jeffrey’s death.</p>
			<p>“We know that two persons, and two persons only, came from Kennington Lane to New Inn. But one of those persons was the tenant of New Inn⁠—that is, John Blackmore. Who was the other? Jeffrey is known by us to have been at Kennington Lane. His body was found on the following morning in the room at New Inn. No third person is known to have come from Kennington Lane; no third person is known to have arrived at New Inn. The inference, by exclusion, is that the second person⁠—the woman⁠—was Jeffrey.</p>
			<p>“Again; Jeffrey had to be brought from Kennington to the inn by John. But John was personating Jeffrey and was made up to resemble him very closely. If Jeffrey were undisguised the two men would be almost exactly alike; which would be very noticeable in any case and suspicious after the death of one of them. Therefore Jeffrey would have to be disguised in some way; and what disguise could be simpler and more effective than the one that I suggest was used?</p>
			<p>“Again; it was unavoidable that someone⁠—the cabman⁠—should know that Jeffrey was not alone when he came to the inn that night. If the fact had leaked out and it had become known that a man had accompanied him to his chambers, some suspicion might have arisen, and that suspicion would have pointed to John, who was directly interested in his brother’s death. But if it had transpired that Jeffrey was accompanied by a woman, there would have been less suspicion, and that suspicion would not have pointed to John Blackmore.</p>
			<p>“Thus all the general probabilities are in favour of the hypothesis that this woman was Jeffrey Blackmore. There is, however, an item of positive evidence that strongly supports this view. When I examined the clothing of the deceased, I found on the trousers a horizontal crease on each leg as if the trousers had been turned up halfway to the knees. This appearance is quite understandable if we suppose that the trousers were worn under a skirt and were turned up so that they should not be accidentally seen. Otherwise it is quite incomprehensible.”</p>
			<p>“Is it not rather strange,” said Marchmont, “that Jeffrey should have allowed himself to be dressed up in this remarkable manner?”</p>
			<p>“I think not,” replied Thorndyke. “There is no reason to suppose that he knew how he was dressed. You have heard Jervis’s description of his condition; that of a mere automaton. You know that without his spectacles he was practically blind, and that he could not have worn them since we found them at the house in Kennington Lane. Probably his head was wrapped up in the veil, and the skirt and mantle put on afterwards; but, in any case, his condition rendered him practically devoid of will power. That is all the evidence I have to prove that the unknown woman was Jeffrey. It is not conclusive but it is convincing enough for our purpose, seeing that the case against John Blackmore does not depend upon it.”</p>
			<p>“Your case against him is on the charge of murder, I presume?” said Stephen.</p>
			<p>“Undoubtedly. And you will notice that the statements made by the supposed Jeffrey to the porter, hinting at suicide, are now important evidence. By the light of what we know, the announcement of intended suicide becomes the announcement of intended murder. It conclusively disproves what it was intended to prove; that Jeffrey died by his own hand.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I see that,” said Stephen, and then after a pause he asked: “Did you identify <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Schallibaum? You have told us nothing about her.”</p>
			<p>“I have considered her as being outside the case as far as I am concerned,” replied Thorndyke. “She was an accessory; my business was with the principal. But, of course, she will be swept up in the net. The evidence that convicts John Blackmore will convict her. I have not troubled about her identity. If John Blackmore is married, she is probably his wife. Do you happen to know if he is married?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> John Blackmore is not much like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Schallibaum, excepting that she has a cast in the left eye. She is a dark woman with very heavy eyebrows.”</p>
			<p>“That is to say that she differs from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Schallibaum in those peculiarities that can be artificially changed and resembles her in the one feature that is unchangeable. Do you know if her Christian name happens to be Pauline?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it is. She was a Miss Pauline Hagenbeck, a member of an American theatrical company. What made you ask?”</p>
			<p>“The name which Jervis heard poor Jeffrey struggling to pronounce seemed to me to resemble Pauline more than any other name.”</p>
			<p>“There is one little point that strikes me,” said Marchmont. “Is it not rather remarkable that the porter should have noticed no difference between the body of Jeffrey and the living man whom he knew by sight, and who must, after all, have been distinctly different in appearance?”</p>
			<p>“I am glad you raised that question,” Thorndyke replied, “for that very difficulty presented itself to me at the beginning of the case. But on thinking it over, I decided that it was an imaginary difficulty, assuming, as we do, that there was a good deal of resemblance between the two men. Put yourself in the porter’s place and follow his mental processes. He is informed that a dead man is lying on the bed in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore’s rooms. Naturally, he assumes that the dead man is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore⁠—who, by the way, had hinted at suicide only the night before. With this idea he enters the chambers and sees a man a good deal like <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore and wearing <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore’s clothes, lying on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Blackmore’s bed. The idea that the body could be that of some other person has never entered his mind. If he notes any difference of appearance he will put that down to the effects of death; for everyone knows that a man dead looks somewhat different from the same man alive. I take it as evidence of great acuteness on the part of John Blackmore that he should have calculated so cleverly, not only the mental process of the porter, but the erroneous reasoning which everyone would base on the porter’s conclusions. For, since the body was actually Jeffrey’s, and was identified by the porter as that of his tenant, it has been assumed by everyone that no question was possible as to the identity of Jeffrey Blackmore and the tenant of New Inn.”</p>
			<p>There was a brief silence, and then Marchmont asked:</p>
			<p>“May we take it that we have now heard all the evidence?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” replied Thorndyke. “That is my case.”</p>
			<p>“Have you given information to the police?” Stephen asked eagerly.</p>
			<p>“Yes. As soon as I had obtained the statement of the cabman, Ridley, and felt that I had enough evidence to secure a conviction, I called at Scotland Yard and had an interview with the Assistant Commissioner. The case is in the hands of Superintendent Miller of the Criminal Investigation Department, a most acute and energetic officer. I have been expecting to hear that the warrant has been executed, for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Miller is usually very punctilious in keeping me informed of the progress of the cases to which I introduce him. We shall hear tomorrow, no doubt.”</p>
			<p>“And, for the present,” said Marchmont, “the case seems to have passed out of our hands.”</p>
			<p>“I shall enter a caveat, all the same,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood.</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t seem very necessary,” Marchmont objected. “The evidence that we have heard is amply sufficient to ensure a conviction and there will be plenty more when the police go into the case. And a conviction on the charges of forgery and murder would, of course, invalidate the second will.”</p>
			<p>“I shall enter a caveat, all the same,” repeated <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood.</p>
			<p>As the two partners showed a disposition to become heated over this question, Thorndyke suggested that they might discuss it at leisure by the light of subsequent events. Acting on this hint⁠—for it was now close upon midnight⁠—our visitors prepared to depart; and were, in fact, just making their way towards the door when the bell rang. Thorndyke flung open the door, and, as he recognized his visitor, greeted him with evident satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“Ha! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Miller; we were just speaking of you. These gentlemen are <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephen Blackmore and his solicitors, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Marchmont and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood. You know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis, I think.”</p>
			<p>The officer bowed to our friends and remarked:</p>
			<p>“I am just in time, it seems. A few minutes more and I should have missed these gentlemen. I don’t know what you’ll think of my news.”</p>
			<p>“You haven’t let that villain escape, I hope,” Stephen exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said the Superintendent, “he is out of my hands and yours too; and so is the woman. Perhaps I had better tell you what has happened.”</p>
			<p>“If you would be so kind,” said Thorndyke, motioning the officer to a chair.</p>
			<p>The superintendent seated himself with the manner of a man who has had a long and strenuous day, and forthwith began his story.</p>
			<p>“As soon as we had your information, we procured a warrant for the arrest of both parties, and then I went straight to their flat with Inspector Badger and a sergeant. There we learned from the attendant that they were away from home and were not expected back until today about noon. We kept a watch on the premises, and this morning, about the time appointed, a man and a woman, answering to the description, arrived at the flat. We followed them in and saw them enter the lift, and we were going to get into the lift too, when the man pulled the rope, and away they went. There was nothing for us to do but run up the stairs, which we did as fast as we could race; but they got to their landing first, and we were only just in time to see them nip in and shut the door. However, it seemed that we had them safe enough, for there was no dropping out of the windows at that height; so we sent the sergeant to get a locksmith to pick the lock or force the door, while we kept on ringing the bell.</p>
			<p>“About three minutes after the sergeant left, I happened to look out of the landing window and saw a hansom pull up opposite the flats. I put my head out of the window, and, hang me if I didn’t see our two friends getting into the cab. It seems that there was a small lift inside the flat communicating with the kitchen, and they had slipped down it one at a time.</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, we raced down the stairs like acrobats, but by the time we got to the bottom the cab was off with a fine start. We ran out into Victoria Street, and there we could see it halfway down the street and going like a chariot race. We managed to pick up another hansom and told the cabby to keep the other one in sight, and away we went like the very deuce; along Victoria Street and Broad Sanctuary, across Parliament Square, over Westminster Bridge and along York Road; we kept the other beggar in sight, but we couldn’t gain an inch on him. Then we turned into Waterloo Station, and, as we were driving up the slope we met another hansom coming down; and when the cabby kissed his hand and smiled at us, we guessed that he was the sportsman we had been following.</p>
			<p>“But there was no time to ask questions. It is an awkward station with a lot of different exits, and it looked a good deal as if our quarry had got away. However, I took a chance. I remembered that the Southampton express was due to start about this time, and I took a shortcut across the lines and made for the platform that it starts from. Just as Badger and I got to the end, about thirty yards from the rear of the train, we saw a man and a woman running in front of us. Then the guard blew his whistle and the train began to move. The man and the woman managed to scramble into one of the rear compartments and Badger and I raced up the platform like mad. A porter tried to head us off, but Badger capsized him and we both sprinted harder than ever, and just hopped on the footboard of the guard’s van as the train began to get up speed. The guard couldn’t risk putting us off, so he had to let us into his van, which suited us exactly, as we could watch the train on both sides from the lookout. And we did watch, I can tell you; for our friend in front had seen us. His head was out of the window as we climbed on to the footboard.</p>
			<p>“However, nothing happened until we stopped at Southampton West. There, I need not say, we lost no time in hopping out, for we naturally expected our friends to make a rush for the exit. But they didn’t. Badger watched the platform, and I kept a lookout to see that they didn’t slip away across the line from the offside. But still there was no sign of them. Then I walked up the train to the compartment which I had seen them enter. And there they were, apparently fast asleep in the corner by the offside window, the man leaning back with his mouth open and the woman resting against him with her head on his shoulder. She gave me quite a turn when I went in to look at them, for she had her eyes half-closed and seemed to be looking round at me with a most horrible expression; but I found afterwards that the peculiar appearance of looking round was due to the cast in her eye.”</p>
			<p>“They were dead, I suppose?” said Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. Stone dead; and I found these on the floor of the carriage.”</p>
			<p>He held up two tiny yellow glass tubes, each labelled “Hypodermic tabloids. Aconitine Nitrate gr. ¹⁄₆₄₀.”</p>
			<p>“Ha!” exclaimed Thorndyke, “this fellow was well up in alkaloidal poisons, it seems; and they appear to have gone about prepared for emergencies. These tubes each contained twenty tabloids, a thirty-second of a grain altogether, so we may assume that about twelve times the medicinal dose was swallowed. Death must have occurred in a few minutes, and a merciful death too.”</p>
			<p>“A more merciful death than they deserved,” exclaimed Stephen, “when one thinks of the misery and suffering that they inflicted on poor old uncle Jeffrey. I would sooner have had them hanged.”</p>
			<p>“It’s better as it is, sir,” said Miller. “There is no need, now, to raise any questions in detail at the inquest. The publicity of a trial for murder would have been very unpleasant for you. I wish <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jervis had given the tip to me instead of to that confounded, overcautious⁠—but there, I mustn’t run down my brother officers: and it’s easy to be wise after the event.</p>
			<p>“Good night, gentlemen. I suppose this accident disposes of your business as far as the will is concerned?”</p>
			<p>“I suppose it does,” agreed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winwood. “But I shall enter a caveat, all the same.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
