<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII: The Statement of Samuel Wilkins</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Statement of Samuel Wilkins</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>As soon as I was alone, I commenced my investigations with a rather desperate hope of eliciting some startling and unsuspected facts. I opened the drawer and taking from it the two pieces of reed and the shattered remains of the spectacles, laid them on the table. The repairs that Thorndyke had contemplated in the case of the spectacles, had not been made. Apparently they had not been necessary. The battered wreck that lay before me, just as we had found it, had evidently furnished the necessary information; for, since Thorndyke was in possession of a portrait of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Graves, it was clear that he had succeeded in identifying him so far as to get into communication with someone who had known him intimately.</p>
			<p>The circumstance should have been encouraging. But somehow it was not. What was possible to Thorndyke was, theoretically, possible to me⁠—or to anyone else. But the possibility did not realize itself in practice. There was the personal equation. Thorndyke’s brain was not an ordinary brain. Facts of which his mind instantly perceived the relation remained to other people unconnected and without meaning. His powers of observation and rapid inference were almost incredible, as I had noticed again and again, and always with undiminished wonder. He seemed to take in everything at a single glance and in an instant to appreciate the meaning of everything that he had seen.</p>
			<p>Here was a case in point. I had myself seen all that he had seen, and, indeed, much more; for I had looked on the very people and witnessed their actions, whereas he had never set eyes on any of them. I had examined the little handful of rubbish that he had gathered up so carefully, and would have flung it back under the grate without a qualm. Not a glimmer of light had I perceived in the cloud of mystery, nor even a hint of the direction in which to seek enlightenment. And yet Thorndyke had, in some incomprehensible manner, contrived to piece together facts that I had probably not even observed, and that so completely that he had already, in these few days, narrowed down the field of inquiry to quite a small area.</p>
			<p>From these reflections I returned to the objects on the table. The spectacles, as things of which I had some expert knowledge, were not so profound a mystery to me. A pair of spectacles might easily afford good evidence for identification; that I perceived clearly enough. Not a ready-made pair, picked up casually at a shop, but a pair constructed by a skilled optician to remedy a particular defect of vision and to fit a particular face. And such were the spectacles before me. The build of the frames was peculiar; the existence of a cylindrical lens⁠—which I could easily make out from the remaining fragments⁠—showed that one glass had been cut to a prescribed shape and almost certainly ground to a particular formula, and also that the distance between centres must have been carefully secured. Hence these spectacles had an individual character. But it was manifestly impossible to inquire of all the spectacle-makers in Europe⁠—for the glasses were not necessarily made in England. As confirmation the spectacles might be valuable; as a starting-point they were of no use at all.</p>
			<p>From the spectacles I turned to the pieces of reed. These were what had given Thorndyke his start. Would they give me a leading hint too? I looked at them and wondered what it was that they had told Thorndyke. The little fragment of the red paper label had a dark-brown or thin black border ornamented with a fret-pattern, and on it I detected a couple of tiny points of gold like the dust from leaf-gilding. But I learned nothing from that. Then the shorter piece of reed was artificially hollowed to fit on the longer piece. Apparently it formed a protective sheath or cap. But what did it protect? Presumably a point or edge of some kind. Could this be a pocketknife of any sort, such as a small stencil-knife? No; the material was too fragile for a knife-handle. It could not be an etching-needle for the same reason; and it was not a surgical appliance⁠—at least it was not like any surgical instrument that was known to me.</p>
			<p>I turned it over and over and cudgelled my brains; and then I had a brilliant idea. Was it a reed pen of which the point had been broken off? I knew that reed pens were still in use by draughtsmen of decorative leanings with an affection for the “fat line.” Could any of our friends be draughtsmen? This seemed the most probable solution of the difficulty, and the more I thought about it the more likely it seemed. Draughtsmen usually sign their work intelligibly, and even when they use a device instead of a signature their identity is easily traceable. Could it be that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Graves, for instance, was an illustrator, and that Thorndyke had established his identity by looking through the works of all the well-known thick-line draughtsmen?</p>
			<p>This problem occupied me for the rest of the day. My explanation did not seem quite to fit Thorndyke’s description of his methods; but I could think of no other. I turned it over during my solitary lunch; I meditated on it with the aid of several pipes in the afternoon; and having refreshed my brain with a cup of tea, I went forth to walk in the Temple gardens⁠—which I was permitted to do without breaking my parole⁠—to think it out afresh.</p>
			<p>The result was disappointing. I was basing my reasoning on the assumption that the pieces of reed were parts of a particular appliance, appertaining to a particular craft; whereas they might be the remains of something quite different, appertaining to a totally different craft or to no craft at all. And in no case did they point to any known individual or indicate any but the vaguest kind of search. After pacing the pleasant walks for upwards of two hours, I at length turned back towards our chambers, where I arrived as the lamplighter was just finishing his round.</p>
			<p>My fruitless speculations had left me somewhat irritable. The lighted windows that I had noticed as I approached had given me the impression that Thorndyke had returned. I had intended to press him for a little further information. When, therefore, I let myself into our chambers and found, instead of my colleague, a total stranger⁠—and only a back view at that⁠—I was disappointed and annoyed.</p>
			<p>The stranger was seated by the table, reading a large document that looked like a lease. He made no movement when I entered, but when I crossed the room and wished him “Good evening,” he half rose and bowed silently. It was then that I first saw his face, and a mighty start he gave me. For one moment I actually thought he was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss, so close was the resemblance, but immediately I perceived that he was a much smaller man.</p>
			<p>I sat down nearly opposite and stole an occasional furtive glance at him. The resemblance to Weiss was really remarkable. The same flaxen hair, the same ragged beard and a similar red nose, with the patches of acne rosacea spreading to the adjacent cheeks. He wore spectacles, too, through which he took a quick glance at me now and again, returning immediately to his document.</p>
			<p>After some moments of rather embarrassing silence, I ventured to remark that it was a mild evening; to which he assented with a sort of Scotch “Hm⁠—hm” and nodded slowly. Then came another interval of silence, during which I speculated on the possibility of his being a relative of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Weiss and wondered what the deuce he was doing in our chambers.</p>
			<p>“Have you an appointment with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Thorndyke?” I asked, at length.</p>
			<p>He bowed solemnly, and by way of reply⁠—in the affirmative, as I assumed⁠—emitted another “hm⁠—hm.”</p>
			<p>I looked at him sharply, a little nettled by his lack of manners; whereupon he opened out the lease so that it screened his face, and as I glanced at the back of the document, I was astonished to observe that it was shaking rapidly.</p>
			<p>The fellow was actually laughing! What he found in my simple question to cause him so much amusement I was totally unable to imagine. But there it was. The tremulous movements of the document left me in no possible doubt that he was for some reason convulsed with laughter.</p>
			<p>It was extremely mysterious. Also, it was rather embarrassing. I took out my pocket file and began to look over my notes. Then the document was lowered and I was able to get another look at the stranger’s face. He was really extraordinarily like Weiss. The shaggy eyebrows, throwing the eye-sockets into shadow, gave him, in conjunction with the spectacles, the same owlish, solemn expression that I had noticed in my Kennington acquaintance; and which, by the way, was singularly out of character with the frivolous behaviour that I had just witnessed.</p>
			<p>From time to time as I looked at him, he caught my eye and instantly averted his own, turning rather red. Apparently he was a shy, nervous man, which might account for his giggling; for I have noticed that shy or nervous people have a habit of smiling inopportunely and even giggling when embarrassed by meeting an over-steady eye. And it seemed my own eye had this disconcerting quality, for even as I looked at him, the document suddenly went up again and began to shake violently.</p>
			<p>I stood it for a minute or two, but, finding the situation intolerably embarrassing, I rose, and brusquely excusing myself, went up to the laboratory to look for Polton and inquire at what time Thorndyke was expected home. To my surprise, however, on entering, I discovered Thorndyke himself just finishing the mounting of a microscopical specimen.</p>
			<p>“Did you know that there is someone below waiting to see you?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Is it anyone you know?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>“No,” I answered. “It is a red-nosed, sniggering fool in spectacles. He has got a lease or a deed or some other sort of document which he has been using to play a sort of idiotic game of Peep-Bo! I couldn’t stand him, so I came up here.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke laughed heartily at my description of his client.</p>
			<p>“What are you laughing at?” I asked sourly; at which he laughed yet more heartily and added to the aggravation by wiping his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Our friend seems to have put you out,” he remarked.</p>
			<p>“He put me out literally. If I had stayed much longer I should have punched his head.”</p>
			<p>“In that case,” said Thorndyke, “I am glad you didn’t stay. But come down and let me introduce you.”</p>
			<p>“No, thank you. I’ve had enough of him for the present.”</p>
			<p>“But I have a very special reason for wishing to introduce you. I think you will get some information from him that will interest you very much; and you needn’t quarrel with a man for being of a cheerful disposition.”</p>
			<p>“Cheerful be hanged!” I exclaimed. “I don’t call a man cheerful because he behaves like a gibbering idiot.”</p>
			<p>To this Thorndyke made no reply but a broad and appreciative smile, and we descended to the lower floor. As we entered the room, the stranger rose, and, glancing in an embarrassed way from one of us to the other, suddenly broke out into an undeniable snigger. I looked at him sternly, and Thorndyke, quite unmoved by his indecorous behaviour, said in a grave voice:</p>
			<p>“Let me introduce you, Jervis; though I think you have met this gentleman before.”</p>
			<p>“I think not,” I said stiffly.</p>
			<p>“Oh yes, you have, sir,” interposed the stranger; and, as he spoke, I started; for the voice was uncommonly like the familiar voice of Polton.</p>
			<p>I looked at the speaker with sudden suspicion. And now I could see that the flaxen hair was a wig; that the beard had a decidedly artificial look, and that the eyes that beamed through the spectacles were remarkably like the eyes of our factotum. But the blotchy face, the bulbous nose and the shaggy, overhanging eyebrows were alien features that I could not reconcile with the personality of our refined and aristocratic-looking little assistant.</p>
			<p>“Is this a practical joke?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“No,” replied Thorndyke; “it is a demonstration. When we were talking this morning it appeared to me that you did not realize the extent to which it is possible to conceal identity under suitable conditions of light. So I arranged, with Polton’s rather reluctant assistance, to give you ocular evidence. The conditions are not favourable⁠—which makes the demonstration more convincing. This is a very well-lighted room and Polton is a very poor actor; in spite of which it has been possible for you to sit opposite him for several minutes and look at him, I have no doubt, very attentively, without discovering his identity. If the room had been lighted only with a candle, and Polton had been equal to the task of supporting his makeup with an appropriate voice and manner, the deception would have been perfect.”</p>
			<p>“I can see that he has a wig on, quite plainly,” said I.</p>
			<p>“Yes; but you would not in a dimly lighted room. On the other hand, if Polton were to walk down Fleet Street at midday in this condition, the makeup would be conspicuously evident to any moderately observant passerby. The secret of making up consists in a careful adjustment to the conditions of light and distance in which the makeup is to be seen. That in use on the stage would look ridiculous in an ordinary room; that which would serve in an artificially lighted room would look ridiculous out of doors by daylight.”</p>
			<p>“Is any effective makeup possible out of doors in ordinary daylight?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes,” replied Thorndyke. “But it must be on a totally different scale from that of the stage. A wig, and especially a beard or moustache, must be joined up at the edges with hair actually stuck on the skin with transparent cement and carefully trimmed with scissors. The same applies to eyebrows; and alterations in the colour of the skin must be carried out much more subtly. Polton’s nose has been built up with a small covering of toupee-paste, the pimples on the cheeks produced with little particles of the same material; and the general tinting has been done with greasepaint with a very light scumble of powder colour to take off some of the shine. This would be possible in outdoor makeup, but it would have to be done with the greatest care and delicacy; in fact, with what the art-critics call ‘reticence.’ A very little makeup is sufficient and too much is fatal. You would be surprised to see how little paste is required to alter the shape of the nose and the entire character of the face.”</p>
			<p>At this moment there came a loud knock at the door; a single, solid dab of the knocker which Polton seemed to recognize, for he ejaculated:</p>
			<p>“Good lord, sir! That’ll be Wilkins, the cabman! I’d forgotten all about him. Whatever’s to be done?”</p>
			<p>He stared at us in ludicrous horror for a moment or two, and then, snatching off his wig, beard and spectacles, poked them into a cupboard. But his appearance was now too much even for Thorndyke⁠—who hastily got behind him⁠—for he had now resumed his ordinary personality⁠—but with a very material difference.</p>
			<p>“Oh, it’s nothing to laugh at, sir,” he exclaimed indignantly as I crammed my handkerchief into my mouth. “Somebody’s got to let him in, or he’ll go away.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; and that won’t do,” said Thorndyke. “But don’t worry, Polton. You can step into the office. I’ll open the door.”</p>
			<p>Polton’s presence of mind, however, seemed to have entirely forsaken him, for he only hovered irresolutely in the wake of his principal. As the door opened, a thick and husky voice inquired:</p>
			<p>“Gent of the name of Polton live here?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, quite right,” said Thorndyke. “Come in. Your name is Wilkins, I think?”</p>
			<p>“That’s me, sir,” said the voice; and in response to Thorndyke’s invitation, a typical “growler” cabman of the old school, complete even to imbricated cape and dangling badge, stalked into the room, and glancing round with a mixture of embarrassment and defiance, suddenly fixed on Polton’s nose a look of devouring curiosity.</p>
			<p>“Here you are, then,” Polton remarked nervously.</p>
			<p>“Yus,” replied the cabman in a slightly hostile tone. “Here I am. What am I wanted to do? And where’s this here <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Polton?”</p>
			<p>“I am <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Polton,” replied our abashed assistant.</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s the other <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Polton what I want,” said the cabman, with his eyes still riveted on the olfactory prominence.</p>
			<p>“There isn’t any other <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Polton,” our subordinate replied irritably. “I am the⁠—er⁠—person who spoke to you in the shelter.”</p>
			<p>“Are you though?” said the manifestly incredulous cabby. “I shouldn’t have thought it; but you ought to know. What do you want me to do?”</p>
			<p>“We want you,” said Thorndyke, “to answer one or two questions. And the first one is, Are you a teetotaller?”</p>
			<p>The question being illustrated by the production of a decanter, the cabman’s dignity relaxed somewhat.</p>
			<p>“I ain’t bigoted,” said he.</p>
			<p>“Then sit down and mix yourself a glass of grog. Soda or plain water?”</p>
			<p>“May as well have all the extries,” replied the cabman, sitting down and grasping the decanter with the air of a man who means business. “Per’aps you wouldn’t mind squirtin’ out the soda, sir, bein’ more used to it.”</p>
			<p>While these preliminaries were being arranged, Polton silently slipped out of the room, and when our visitor had fortified himself with a gulp of the uncommonly stiff mixture, the examination began.</p>
			<p>“Your name, I think, is Wilkins?” said Thorndyke.</p>
			<p>“That’s me, sir. Samuel Wilkins is my name.”</p>
			<p>“And your occupation?”</p>
			<p>“Is a very tryin’ one and not paid for as it deserves. I drives a cab, sir; a four-wheeled cab is what I drives; and a very poor job it is.”</p>
			<p>“Do you happen to remember a very foggy day about a month ago?”</p>
			<p>“Do I not, sir! A regler sneezer that was! Wednesday, the fourteenth of March. I remember the date because my benefit society came down on me for arrears that morning.”</p>
			<p>“Will you tell us what happened to you between six and seven in the evening of that day?”</p>
			<p>“I will, sir,” replied the cabman, emptying his tumbler by way of bracing himself up for the effort. “A little before six I was waiting on the arrival side of the Great Northern Station, King’s Cross, when I see a gentleman and a lady coming out. The gentleman he looks up and down and then he sees me and walks up to the cab and opens the door and helps the lady in. Then he says to me: ‘Do you know New Inn?’ he says. That’s what he says to me what was born and brought up in White Horse Alley, Drury Lane.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Get inside,’ says I.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Well,’ says he, ‘you drive in through the gate in Wych Street,’ he says, as if he expected me to go in by Houghton Street and down the steps, ‘and then,’ he says, ‘you drive nearly to the end and you’ll see a house with a large brass plate at the corner of the doorway. That’s where we want to be set down,’ he says, and with that he nips in and pulls up the windows and off we goes.</p>
			<p>“It took us a full half-hour to get to New Inn through the fog, for I had to get down and lead the horse part of the way. As I drove in under the archway, I saw it was half-past six by the clock in the porter’s lodge. I drove down nearly to the end of the inn and drew up opposite a house where there was a big brass plate by the doorway. It was number thirty-one. Then the gent crawls out and hands me five bob⁠—two ’arf-crowns⁠—and then he helps the lady out, and away they waddles to the doorway and I see them start up the stairs very slow⁠—regler Pilgrim’s Progress. And that was the last I see of ’em.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke wrote down the cabman’s statement verbatim together with his own questions, and then asked:</p>
			<p>“Can you give us any description of the gentleman?”</p>
			<p>“The gent,” said Wilkins, was a very respectable-looking gent, though he did look as if he’d had a drop of something short, and small blame to him on a day like that. But he was all there, and he knew what was the proper fare for a foggy evening, which is more than some of ’em do. He was a elderly gent, about sixty, and he wore spectacles, but he didn’t seem to be able to see much through ’em. He was a funny ’un to look at; as round in the back as a turtle and he walked with his head stuck forward like a goose.”</p>
			<p>“What made you think he had been drinking?”</p>
			<p>“Well, he wasn’t as steady as he might have been on his pins. But he wasn’t drunk, you know. Only a bit wobbly on the plates.”</p>
			<p>“And the lady; what was she like?”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t see much of her because her head was wrapped up in a sort of woollen veil. But I should say she wasn’t a chicken. Might have been about the same age as the gent, but I couldn’t swear to that. She seemed a trifle rickety on the pins too; in fact they were a rum-looking couple. I watched ’em tottering across the pavement and up the stairs, hanging on to each other, him peering through his blinkers and she trying to see through her veil, and I thought it was a jolly good job they’d got a nice sound cab and a steady driver to bring ’em safe home.”</p>
			<p>“How was the lady dressed?”</p>
			<p>“Can’t rightly say, not being a hexpert. Her head was done up in this here veil like a pudden in a cloth and she had a small hat on. She had a dark brown mantle with a fringe of beads round it and a black dress; and I noticed when she got into the cab at the station that one of her stockings looked like the bellows of a concertina. That’s all I can tell you.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke wrote down the last answer, and, having read the entire statement aloud, handed the pen to our visitor.</p>
			<p>“If that is all correct,” he said, “I will ask you to sign your name at the bottom.”</p>
			<p>“Do you want me to swear a affidavy that it’s all true?” asked Wilkins.</p>
			<p>“No, thank you,” replied Thorndyke. “We may have to call you to give evidence in court, and then you’ll be sworn; and you’ll also be paid for your attendance. For the present I want you to keep your own counsel and say nothing to anybody about having been here. We have to make some other inquiries and we don’t want the affair talked about.”</p>
			<p>“I see, sir,” said Wilkins, as he laboriously traced his signature at the foot of the statement; “you don’t want the other parties for to ogle your lay. All right, sir; you can depend on me. I’m fly, I am.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, Wilkins,” said Thorndyke. “And now what are we to give you for your trouble in coming here?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll leave the fare to you, sir. You know what the information’s worth; but I should think ’arf a thick-un wouldn’t hurt you.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke laid on the table a couple of sovereigns, at the sight of which the cabman’s eyes glistened.</p>
			<p>“We have your address, Wilkins,” said he. “If we want you as a witness we shall let you know, and if not, there will be another two pounds for you at the end of a fortnight, provided you have not let this little interview leak out.”</p>
			<p>Wilkins gathered up the spoils gleefully. “You can trust me, sir,” said he, “for to keep my mouth shut. I knows which side my bread’s buttered. Good night, gentlemen all.”</p>
			<p>With this comprehensive salute he moved towards the door and let himself out.</p>
			<p>“Well, Jervis; what do you think of it?” Thorndyke asked, as the cabman’s footsteps faded away in a creaky diminuendo.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know what to think. This woman is a new factor in the case and I don’t know how to place her.”</p>
			<p>“Not entirely new,” said Thorndyke. “You have not forgotten those beads that we found in Jeffrey’s bedroom, have you?”</p>
			<p>“No, I had not forgotten them, but I did not see that they told us much excepting that some woman had apparently been in his bedroom at some time.”</p>
			<p>“That, I think, is all that they did tell us. But now they tell us that a particular woman was in his bedroom at a particular time, which is a good deal more significant.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It almost looks as if she must have been there when he made away with himself.”</p>
			<p>“It does, very much.”</p>
			<p>“By the way, you were right about the colours of those beads, and also about the way they were used.”</p>
			<p>“As to their use, that was a mere guess; but it has turned out to be correct. It was well that we found the beads, for, small as is the amount of information they give, it is still enough to carry us a stage further.”</p>
			<p>“How so?”</p>
			<p>“I mean that the cabman’s evidence tells us only that this woman entered the house. The beads tell us that she was in the bedroom; which, as you say, seems to connect her to some extent with Jeffrey’s death. Not necessarily, of course. It is only a suggestion; but a rather strong suggestion under the peculiar circumstances.”</p>
			<p>“Even so,” said I, “this new fact seems to me so far from clearing up the mystery, only to add to it a fresh element of still deeper mystery. The porter’s evidence at the inquest could leave no doubt that Jeffrey contemplated suicide, and his preparations pointedly suggest this particular night as the time selected by him for doing away with himself. Is not that so?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly. The porter’s evidence was very clear on that point.”</p>
			<p>“Then I don’t see where this woman comes in. It is obvious that her presence at the inn, and especially in the bedroom, on this occasion and in these strange, secret circumstances, has a rather sinister look; but yet I do not see in what way she could have been connected with the tragedy. Perhaps, after all, she has nothing to do with it. You remember that Jeffrey went to the lodge about eight o’clock, to pay his rent, and chatted for some time with the porter. That looks as if the lady had already left.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Thorndyke. “But, on the other hand, Jeffrey’s remarks to the porter with reference to the cab do not quite agree with the account that we have just heard from Wilkins. Which suggests⁠—as does Wilkins’s account generally⁠—some secrecy as to the lady’s visit to his chambers.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know who the woman was?” I asked.</p>
			<p>“No, I don’t know,” he replied. “I have a rather strong suspicion that I can identify her, but I am waiting for some further facts.”</p>
			<p>“Is your suspicion founded on some new matter that you have discovered, or is it deducible from facts that are known to me?”</p>
			<p>“I think,” he replied, “that you know practically all that I know, although I have, in one instance, turned a very strong suspicion into a certainty by further inquiries. But I think you ought to be able to form some idea as to who this lady probably was.”</p>
			<p>“But no woman has been mentioned in the case at all.”</p>
			<p>“No; but I think you should be able to give this lady a name, notwithstanding.”</p>
			<p>“Should I? Then I begin to suspect that I am not cut out for medico-legal practice, for I don’t see the faintest glimmer of a suggestion.”</p>
			<p>Thorndyke smiled benevolently. “Don’t be discouraged, Jervis,” said he. “I expect that when you first began to go round the wards, you doubted whether you were cut out for medical practice. I did. For special work one needs special knowledge and an acquired faculty for making use of it. What does a second year’s student make of a small thoracic aneurysm? He knows the anatomy of the chest; he begins to know the normal heart sounds and areas of dullness; but he cannot yet fit his various items of knowledge together. Then comes the experienced physician and perhaps makes a complete diagnosis without any examination at all, merely from hearing the patient speak or cough. He has the same facts as the student, but he has acquired the faculty of instantly connecting an abnormality of function with its correleated anatomical change. It is a matter of experience. And, with your previous training, you will soon acquire the faculty. Try to observe everything. Let nothing escape you. And try constantly to find some connection between facts and events that seem to be unconnected. That is my advice to you; and with that we will put away the Blackmore case for the present and consider our day’s work at an end.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
